=head1 NAME

Texinfo::CommandsValues - Associations of information to Texinfo @-commands

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Texinfo::CommandsValues;

  my $command_text = $Texinfo::CommandsValues::nobrace_symbol_text{'@'};

=head1 NOTES

The Texinfo Perl module main purpose is to be used in C<texi2any> to convert
Texinfo to other formats.  There is no promise of API stability.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Texinfo::CommandsValues holds hashes with information on @-commands.
Only hashes relevant for conversion of @-commands are documented.

=head1 @-COMMAND ASSOCIATED INFORMATION

Hashes are defined as C<our> variables, and are therefore available
outside of the module.

=over

=item %nobrace_symbol_text
X<C<%nobrace_symbol_text>>

Values are ASCII representation of single character non-alphabetical commands
without brace such as C<*> or C<:>.  The value may be an empty string.

=item %text_brace_no_arg_commands
X<C<%text_brace_no_arg_commands>>

Values are ASCII representation of commands with empty braces such as
C<atchar>, C<LaTeX>, C<arrow>, C<quoteleft> or C<AA>.

=item %unicode_diacritics
X<C<%unicode_diacritics>>

Keys are Texinfo accent commands, such as C<'> or C<ogonek>.  Values are
strings of hexadecimal numbers representing the Unicode codepoint of the
diacritic associated to the accent command.  A diacritic is a zero-length
character that should be combined with adjacent characters to have the whole
interpreted as an accented character.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Texinfo::Commands>.  L<Texinfo::Convert::Unicode>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Patrice Dumas, E<lt>pertusus@free.frE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2010- Free Software Foundation, Inc.  See the source file for
all copyright years.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at
your option) any later version.

=cut
