@node Texinfo@asis{::}CommandsValues
@chapter Texinfo::CommandsValues

@node Texinfo@asis{::}CommandsValues NAME
@section Texinfo::CommandsValues NAME

Texinfo::CommandsValues - Associations of information to Texinfo @@-commands

@node Texinfo@asis{::}CommandsValues SYNOPSIS
@section Texinfo::CommandsValues SYNOPSIS

@verbatim
  use Texinfo::CommandsValues;

  my $command_text = $Texinfo::CommandsValues::nobrace_symbol_text{'@'};
@end verbatim

@node Texinfo@asis{::}CommandsValues NOTES
@section Texinfo::CommandsValues NOTES

The Texinfo Perl module main purpose is to be used in @code{texi2any} to convert
Texinfo to other formats.  There is no promise of API stability.

@node Texinfo@asis{::}CommandsValues DESCRIPTION
@section Texinfo::CommandsValues DESCRIPTION

Texinfo::CommandsValues holds hashes with information on @@-commands.
Only hashes relevant for conversion of @@-commands are documented.

@node Texinfo@asis{::}CommandsValues @@-COMMAND ASSOCIATED INFORMATION
@section @@-COMMAND ASSOCIATED INFORMATION

Hashes are defined as @code{our} variables, and are therefore available
outside of the module.

@table @asis
@item %nobrace_symbol_text
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}CommandsValues %nobrace_symbol_text}
@cindex @code{%nobrace_symbol_text}

Values are ASCII representation of single character non-alphabetical commands
without brace such as @code{*} or @code{:}.  The value may be an empty string.

@item %text_brace_no_arg_commands
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}CommandsValues %text_brace_no_arg_commands}
@cindex @code{%text_brace_no_arg_commands}

Values are ASCII representation of commands with empty braces such as
@code{atchar}, @code{LaTeX}, @code{arrow}, @code{quoteleft} or @code{AA}.

@item %unicode_diacritics
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}CommandsValues %unicode_diacritics}
@cindex @code{%unicode_diacritics}

Keys are Texinfo accent commands, such as @code{'} or @code{ogonek}.  Values are
strings of hexadecimal numbers representing the Unicode codepoint of the
diacritic associated to the accent command.  A diacritic is a zero-length
character that should be combined with adjacent characters to have the whole
interpreted as an accented character.

@end table

@node Texinfo@asis{::}CommandsValues SEE ALSO
@section Texinfo::CommandsValues SEE ALSO

@ref{Texinfo@asis{::}Commands NAME,, Texinfo::Commands}.  @ref{Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}Unicode NAME,, Texinfo::Convert::Unicode}.

@node Texinfo@asis{::}CommandsValues AUTHOR
@section Texinfo::CommandsValues AUTHOR

Patrice Dumas, <pertusus@@free.fr>

@node Texinfo@asis{::}CommandsValues COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
@section Texinfo::CommandsValues COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2010- Free Software Foundation, Inc.  See the source file for
all copyright years.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at
your option) any later version.

