@node Texinfo@asis{::}Reader
@chapter Texinfo::Reader

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Reader NAME
@section Texinfo::Reader NAME

Texinfo::Reader - Texinfo tree reader

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Reader SYNOPSIS
@section Texinfo::Reader SYNOPSIS

@verbatim
  use Texinfo::Parser;
  use Texinfo::Reader;

  my $parser = Texinfo::Parser::parser();
  my $document = $parser->parse_texi_file("somefile.texi");

  my $start_element = $document->tree();

  my $reader = Texinfo::Reader::new($start_element);

  while (1) {
    my $next = $reader->read();
    last if (!defined($next));

    my $category = $next->{'category'};

    my $element = $next->{'element'};

    if ($category == Texinfo::Reader->TXI_READ_TEXT) {
      my $text = $element->{'text'};
      ....
    } elsif ($category == Texinfo::Reader->TXI_READ_ELEMENT_START) {
      my $cmdname = $element->{'cmdname'};
      ...
    ....
    }
  }
@end verbatim

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Reader NOTES
@section Texinfo::Reader NOTES

The Texinfo Perl module main purpose is to be used in @code{texi2any} to convert
Texinfo to other formats.  There is no promise of API stability.

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Reader DESCRIPTION
@section Texinfo::Reader DESCRIPTION

@code{Texinfo::Reader} offers an interface to a Texinfo tree obtained from
parsing Texinfo code.  This interface is based on a stream of tokens associated
to tree elements.  This interface is conceptually similar to the interface of
@url{https://metacpan.org/pod/XML::LibXML::Reader, XML::LibXML::Reader} or @url{https://metacpan.org/pod/Pod::Simple::PullParser, Pod::Simple::PullParser}.

The Reader acts as a cursor going forward on the Texinfo tree and stopping
at each element on the way, providing with a new token.  The user's code keeps
control of the progress and simply calls the @code{read()} function repeatedly to
progress to the next token in the Texinfo document order.  The other
function provides means for skipping sub-trees.

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Reader METHODS
@section Texinfo::Reader METHODS

@table @asis
@item $reader = Texinfo::Reader::new ($element)
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Reader $reader = Texinfo@asis{::}Reader@asis{::}new ($element)}
@cindex @code{Texinfo::Reader::new}

Initialize a reader starting at the @emph{$element} Texinfo tree element.

@item $token = $reader->read()
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Reader $token = $reader->read()}
@cindex @code{read}

Returns the next token or undef at the end of the tree.

A token is an hash reference with string keys:

@table @asis
@item element
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Reader element}

The current tree element.

@item category
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Reader category}

Information on the tree element and on the position read.  The possible token
category values are declared as constants and are accessed through
the @code{Texinfo::Reader} package, like
@code{Texinfo::Reader->TXI_READ_ELEMENT_START}.

The token category can take the following @code{Texinfo::Reader} constant values:

@table @asis
@item TXI_READ_ELEMENT_START
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Reader TXI_READ_ELEMENT_START}

Start of the tree element, before getting the element contents.

@item TXI_READ_ELEMENT_END
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Reader TXI_READ_ELEMENT_END}

End of the tree element after having read the contents (after a closing
brace, an @@end, at the end of a container).

@item TXI_READ_TEXT
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Reader TXI_READ_TEXT}

Text element.

@item TXI_READ_IGNORABLE_TEXT
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Reader TXI_READ_IGNORABLE_TEXT}

Text element supposed to be ignored, such as spaces appearing after
an opening brace or around a comma delimiting arguments.

@item TXI_READ_EMPTY
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Reader TXI_READ_EMPTY}

A tree element which is not a text tree element and does not hold content.  For
Texinfo @@-commands without braces nor line argument such as @code{@@@@} and for empty
arguments.  For example the @code{brace_container} argument container of @code{@@TeX@{@}}
is empty.  Also for invalid constructs such as brace @@-commands without braces.

@end table

@end table

The Texinfo tree element is described in @ref{Texinfo@asis{::}Parser TEXINFO TREE}.

@item $token = $reader->skip_children($element)
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Reader $token = $reader->skip_children($element)}
@cindex @code{skip_children}

Skip the remaining of the contents currently being processed.
Return a token with the @emph{TXI_READ_ELEMENT_END} category, or undef at the end
of the tree.

If the @emph{$element} optional argument is specified, a fatal error is emitted if
it does not match with the parent element of the skipped contents.

@item $elements = reader_collect_commands_list($element, $command_names)
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Reader $elements = reader_collect_commands_list($element@comma{} $command_names)}

Collect all the tree elements corresponding to @@-command names in the
@emph{$command_names} array reference, starting at @emph{$element}.  The
return value is an array reference of the collected elements, in the order of
their appearence in the Texinfo tree.

@end table

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Reader @code{Texinfo@asis{::}Reader} and XS extensions
@subsection @code{Texinfo::Reader} and XS extensions

The Texinfo Perl modules can be setup to use Perl XS module extensions
in native code (written in C) that replace Perl package or methods
by native code for faster execution.  In general, using pure Perl or XS
extensions is transparent.  This is not fully the case for @code{Texinfo::Reader}.
The XS interface is designed such that the Texinfo tree actually processed is
not the Perl elements tree, but a tree stored in native code in XS
extensions, corresponding to compiled C data structures.

If the @code{Texinfo::Reader} XS extension is used, the element used to
initialize the reader through
@ref{Texinfo@asis{::}Reader $reader = Texinfo@asis{::}Reader@asis{::}new ($element),, new}
need to have a link from Perl to native code C data registered in the
Perl element to find the C tree data corresponding to the Perl element.
This is done automatically if the element is the Texinfo tree root element.
For other elements, this link may need to be setup especially.

To setup this link explicitly for the element associated to the
current Reader token or the child elements of the current Reader token
the following methods may be called:

@table @asis
@item $reader->register_token_element()
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Reader $reader->register_token_element()}

Add a link from the current token Perl element to the associated C
data.

@item $reader->register_token_element_child($index)
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Reader $reader->register_token_element_child($index)}

Add a link from the Perl element to the associated C data for the child of the
current token Perl element at index @emph{$index}.  If the first child of the
current token Perl element is of type @code{arguments_line}, the child
of the @code{arguments_line} tree element is selected instead of the child
of the current token Perl element.

@end table

For example, to register all the elements upon reading them:

@verbatim
  while (1) {

    my $next = $reader->read();
    last if (!defined($next));

    my $element = $next->{'element'};

    my $registerd_element = $reader->register_token_element();

    if (!defined($element)) {
      $element = $registerd_element;
    }

    ...
  }
@end verbatim

Calling these two functions is not the only possibility to create
a link from Perl to C data.  Another possibility is to use the
@ref{Texinfo@asis{::}TreeElement NAME,, Texinfo::TreeElement} interface to access other elements from elements with
the link to C data already setup, or to use the
@ref{Texinfo@asis{::}Example@asis{::}TreeElementConverter NAME,, Texinfo::Example::TreeElementConverter} module methods.

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Reader SEE ALSO
@section Texinfo::Reader SEE ALSO

@ref{Texinfo@asis{::}Parser NAME,, Texinfo::Parser}. @ref{Texinfo@asis{::}Document NAME,, Texinfo::Document}.
@ref{Texinfo@asis{::}Example@asis{::}TreeElementConverter NAME,, Texinfo::Example::TreeElementConverter}.

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Reader AUTHOR
@section Texinfo::Reader AUTHOR

Patrice Dumas.

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Reader COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
@section Texinfo::Reader COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2025- Free Software Foundation, Inc.  See the source file for
all copyright years.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at
your option) any later version.

