@node Texinfo@asis{::}Document@asis{::}Indices
@chapter Texinfo::Document::Indices

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Document@asis{::}Indices NAME
@section Texinfo::Document::Indices NAME

Texinfo::Document::Indices - Texinfo document indices

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Document@asis{::}Indices SYNOPSIS
@section Texinfo::Document::Indices SYNOPSIS

@verbatim
  use Texinfo::Document::Indices;

  Texinfo::Document::Indices::merged_indices($document);

  my $document_sorted_index_entries
   = Texinfo::Document::Indices::sorted_indices_by_index($document);
@end verbatim

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Document@asis{::}Indices NOTES
@section Texinfo::Document::Indices NOTES

The Texinfo Perl module main purpose is to be used in @code{texi2any} to convert
Texinfo to other formats.  There is no promise of API stability.

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Document@asis{::}Indices DESCRIPTION
@section Texinfo::Document::Indices DESCRIPTION

Merge and sort document indices.  Parsed indexes
are not merged nor sorted, @ref{Texinfo@asis{::}Indices NAME,, Texinfo::Indices} functions are
called to merge or sort the indexes the first time the following
methods are called.  The results are afterwards associated to the
document and simply returned.

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Document@asis{::}Indices METHODS
@section Texinfo::Document::Indices METHODS

@table @asis
@item $merged_indices = $document->merged_indices()
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Document@asis{::}Indices $merged_indices = $document->merged_indices()}
@cindex @code{merged_indices}

Merge indexes if needed and return merged indexes.  The @emph{$merged_indices}
returned is a hash reference whose keys are the index names and values arrays
of index entry structures described in @ref{Texinfo@asis{::}Document@asis{::}Indices index_entries,, index_entries}.

@ref{Texinfo@asis{::}Indices $merged_indices = merge_indices($indices_information),, @code{Texinfo::Indices::merge_indices}}
is used to merge the indexes.

It is not useful to call this function directly if indexes are sorted, as
it is already called by index sorting functions.

@end table

In general, this module sorting methods should not be called except
maybe in tests, @ref{Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}Converter Index sorting} Converter methods
should be used.

@table @asis
@item $sorted_indices = sorted_indices_by_index($document, $use_unicode_collation, $lang_sorting_locale)
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Document@asis{::}Indices $sorted_indices = sorted_indices_by_index($document@comma{} $use_unicode_collation@comma{} $lang_sorting_locale)}
@cindex @code{sorted_indices_by_index}

@code{sorted_indices_by_index} returns the indexes with all entries
of an index together.

By default, indexes are sorted according to the @emph{Unicode Collation Algorithm}
defined in the @url{http://www.unicode.org/reports/tr10/, Unicode Technical Standard
#10}, without language-specific collation
tailoring.  If the optional @emph{$use_unicode_collation} argument is set to 0,
the sorting will not use
the @emph{Unicode Collation Algorithm} and simply sort according to the codepoints.
The optional @emph{$lang_sorting_locale} language is used for linguistic
tailoring of the sorting, if possible.

The array of the sorted index entries is associated with the index name.

@ref{Texinfo@asis{::}Indices $index_entries_sorted = sort_indices_by_index($indices_sort_strings@comma{} $use_unicode_collation@comma{} $lang_sorting_locale),, @code{Texinfo::Indices::sort_indices_by_index}}
is used to sort the indexes, if needed.

@end table

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Document@asis{::}Indices SEE ALSO
@section Texinfo::Document::Indices SEE ALSO

@ref{Texinfo@asis{::}Indices NAME,, Texinfo::Indices}. @ref{Texinfo@asis{::}Document NAME,, Texinfo::Document}.

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Document@asis{::}Indices AUTHOR
@section Texinfo::Document::Indices AUTHOR

Patrice Dumas, <bug-texinfo@@gnu.org>

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Document@asis{::}Indices COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
@section Texinfo::Document::Indices COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2010- Free Software Foundation, Inc.  See the source file for
all copyright years.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at
your option) any later version.

