@node Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}Utils
@chapter Texinfo::Convert::Utils

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}Utils NAME
@section Texinfo::Convert::Utils NAME

Texinfo::Convert::Utils - miscellaneous functions usable in all converters

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}Utils SYNOPSIS
@section Texinfo::Convert::Utils SYNOPSIS

@verbatim
  use Texinfo::Convert::Utils;
@end verbatim

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}Utils NOTES
@section Texinfo::Convert::Utils NOTES

The Texinfo Perl module main purpose is to be used in @code{texi2any} to convert
Texinfo to other formats.  There is no promise of API stability.

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}Utils DESCRIPTION
@section Texinfo::Convert::Utils DESCRIPTION

Miscellaneous methods that may be useful for backends converting Texinfo
trees.  This module contains the methods that can be used in converters
which do not inherit from @ref{Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}Converter NAME,, Texinfo::Convert::Converter}.

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}Utils METHODS
@section Texinfo::Convert::Utils METHODS

No method is exported in the default case.

Some methods take an optional @emph{$converter} argument for error reporting, see
@ref{Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}Converter Registering error and warning messages}.  Even
when the caller does not inherit from @ref{Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}Converter NAME,, Texinfo::Convert::Converter}, it could
implement the required interfaces and could also have a converter available in
some cases, to call the functions with the converter argument set.

@table @asis
@item $result = add_heading_number($heading_element, $heading_text, $do_number, $lang_translations)
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}Utils $result = add_heading_number($heading_element@comma{} $heading_text@comma{} $do_number@comma{} $lang_translations)}
@cindex @code{add_heading_number}

@emph{$heading_element} is a heading command tree element.  @emph{$heading_text} is the
already formatted heading text.  if the @emph{$do_number} optional argument is
defined and false, no number is used and the text is returned as is.  The
@emph{$lang_translations} optional argument should be an array reference with one
or two elements.  The first element of the array is the language the resulting
string is translated to.  The second element, if set, should be an hash
reference holding translations already done.  If a language is set in
@emph{$lang_translations}, the string is translated and the optional @emph{$debug}
argument is passed to the translation function.

This function returns the heading with a number and the appendix part if
needed.

@item ($category, $class, $type, $name, $arguments) = definition_arguments_content($element)
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}Utils ($category@comma{} $class@comma{} $type@comma{} $name@comma{} $arguments) = definition_arguments_content($element)}
@cindex @code{definition_arguments_content}

@emph{$element} should be a @code{@@def*} Texinfo tree element.  The
@emph{$category}, @emph{$class}, @emph{$type}, @emph{$name} are elements corresponding
to the definition @@-command line.  Texinfo elements
on the @@-command line corresponding to arguments in the function
definition are returned in the @emph{$arguments} element.
Arguments correspond to text following the other elements
on the @@-command line.  If there is no argument, @emph{$arguments}
will be @code{undef}.

@item $tree = definition_category_tree($def_line, $lang_translations, $debug, $converter)
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}Utils $tree = definition_category_tree($def_line@comma{} $lang_translations@comma{} $debug@comma{} $converter)}
@cindex @code{definition_category_tree}

@emph{$def_line} is a @code{def_line} Texinfo tree container.  This function returns a
Texinfo tree corresponding to the category of the @emph{$def_line} taking the class
into account, if there is one.  The @emph{$lang_translations} optional argument
should be an array reference with one or two elements.  The first element of
the array is the language the resulting string is translated to.  The second
element, if set, should be an hash reference holding translations already done.
If @emph{$lang_translations} is set, the optional @emph{$debug} argument is passed to
the translation function.  If the optional @emph{$converter} argument is set, the
translation is done by a converter method.  In that case, @emph{$lang_translations}
and @emph{$debug} are ignored, the converter method uses similar converter
information.

@item ($encoded_name, $encoding) = encoded_input_file_name($character_string_name, $input_file_name_encoding, $doc_encoding_for_input_file_name, $locale_encoding, $document, $input_file_encoding)
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}Utils ($encoded_name@comma{} $encoding) = encoded_input_file_name($character_string_name@comma{} $input_file_name_encoding@comma{} $doc_encoding_for_input_file_name@comma{} $locale_encoding@comma{} $document@comma{} $input_file_encoding)}

@item ($encoded_name, $encoding) = encoded_output_file_name($character_string_name, $output_file_name_encoding, $doc_encoding_for_output_file_name, $locale_encoding, $document)
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}Utils ($encoded_name@comma{} $encoding) = encoded_output_file_name($character_string_name@comma{} $output_file_name_encoding@comma{} $doc_encoding_for_output_file_name@comma{} $locale_encoding@comma{} $document)}

@cindex @code{encoded_input_file_name}
@cindex @code{encoded_output_file_name}


@code{encoded_input_file_name} encodes @emph{$character_string_name} as an input file
name.  If @emph{$doc_encoding_for_input_file_name} is set, the encoding is based on
the input file content encoding, otherwise @emph{$locale_encoding} is used.  The
@emph{$document} argument is an optional Texinfo parsed document used to get the
input document content encoding.  @code{encoded_output_file_name} encodes
@emph{$character_string_name} as an output file name and takes similar arguments.
Return the encoded name and the encoding used to encode the name.

The @emph{$input_file_encoding} argument is optional and only available for
@code{encoded_input_file_name}.  If set, it is used for the input file encoding.
It is useful if there is more precise information on the input file encoding
where the file name appeared.

@item $tree = expand_verbatiminclude($verbatiminclude, $name_encoding, $doc_encoding_for_input_file_name, $locale_encoding, $include_directories, $document, $converter)
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}Utils $tree = expand_verbatiminclude($verbatiminclude@comma{} $name_encoding@comma{} $doc_encoding_for_input_file_name@comma{} $locale_encoding@comma{} $include_directories@comma{} $document@comma{} $converter)}
@cindex @code{expand_verbatiminclude}

@emph{$verbatiminclude} is a @code{@@verbatiminclude} tree element.
@emph{$name_encoding}, @emph{$doc_encoding_for_input_file_name}, @emph{$locale_encoding}
and @emph{$document} are @ref{Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}Utils ($encoded_name@comma{}
$encoding) = encoded_input_file_name($character_string_name@comma{}
$input_file_name_encoding@comma{} $doc_encoding_for_input_file_name@comma{} $locale_encoding@comma{}
$document@comma{} $input_file_encoding),, @code{encoded_input_file_name} arguments}.  @emph{$include_directories} is an array
reference with include directories where the file specified as
@code{@@verbatiminclude} argument is searched for. The optional @emph{$converter}
argument is used to output error messages.  This function returns a
@code{@@verbatim} tree elements after finding the included file and reading it.

@item ($contents_element, \@@accent_commands) = find_innermost_accent_contents($element)
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}Utils ($contents_element@comma{} \@@accent_commands) = find_innermost_accent_contents($element)}
@cindex @code{find_innermost_accent_contents}

@emph{$element} should be an accent command Texinfo tree element.  Returns
an element containing the innermost accent @@-command contents,
normally a text element with one or two letter, and an array reference
containing the accent commands nested in @emph{$element} (including
@emph{$element}).  If there is no argument at all for the accent command,
@emph{$contents_element} is @code{undef}.

@end table

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}Utils SEE ALSO
@section Texinfo::Convert::Utils SEE ALSO

@ref{Texinfo@asis{::}Common NAME,, Texinfo::Common}, @ref{Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}Converter NAME,, Texinfo::Convert::Converter} and @ref{Texinfo@asis{::}Translations NAME,, Texinfo::Translations}.

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}Utils AUTHOR
@section Texinfo::Convert::Utils AUTHOR

Patrice Dumas, <bug-texinfo@@gnu.org>

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}Utils COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
@section Texinfo::Convert::Utils COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2010- Free Software Foundation, Inc.  See the source file for
all copyright years.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at
your option) any later version.

